AIM - Creating Forensic Images FTK Imager.

FTK Imager allows you to write an image file to a single destination or to simultaneously
write multiple image files to multiple destinations.
To Create a Forensic Image (FTK Imager) -
1. Click “File”, and then Create Disk Image, or click the button on the Toolbar.
2. Select the source you want to make an image of and Click Next.
3. Select the Drive OR Browse to the source of image you want -> “Finish” -> Create
Image Dialog -> “Add”
-> You can compare the stored
hashes of your image content by
checking the Verify images after
they are created. If a file doesn’t
have a hash, this option will
generate one.
-> You can list the entire contents of your images with path, creation dates, whether files
were deleted, and other metadata. The list is saved in a tab-separated value format.

4. Select the type of image you want to create, and then click Next.
The raw image type is not compressed. If you select the Raw (dd) type, be sure to have adequate
space for the resulting image.
If you select SMART or E01 as the image type, complete the fields in the Evidence Item Information
dialog, and click Next.

Raw (dd): This is the image format most commonly used by modern analysis tools. These raw file
formatted images do not contain headers, metadata, or magic values. The raw format typically
includes padding for any memory ranges that were intentionally skipped (i.e., device memory) or
that could not be read by the acquisition tool, which helps maintain spatial integrity (relative offsets
among data).

SMART: This file format is designed for Linux file systems. This format keeps the disk images as
pure bitstreams with optional compression. The file consists of a standard 13-byte header followed
by a series of sections. Each section includes its type string, a 64-bit offset to the next section, its
64-bit size, padding, and a CRC, in addition to actual data or comments, if applicable.
E01: this format is a proprietary format developed by Guidance Software’s EnCase. This format
compresses the image file. An image with this format starts with case information in the header and
footer, which contains an MD5 hash of the entire bit stream. This case information contains the
date and time of acquisition, examiner’s name, special notes and an optional password.

AFF: Advance Forensic Format (AFF) was developed by Simson Garfinkel and Basis Technology. Its
latest implementation is AFF4. The goal is to create a disk image format that does not lock the user
into a proprietary format that may prevent them from being able to properly analyze it.

5. In the Image Destination Folder field, type the location path where you want to save
the image file, or click Browse to find the desired location.

6. In the Image Filename field, specify a name for the image file but do not specify a
file extension.
7. In the Image Fragment Size field, specify the maximum size in MB for each fragment
of the image file. The s01 format is limited by design to sizes between 1 MB and
2047 MB (2 GB). Compressed block pointers are 31- bit numbers (the high bit is a
compressed flag), which limits the size of any one segment to two gigabytes.
TIP -> If you want to transfer the image file to CD, accept the default fragment size
of 650 MB.

8. Click “Finish” You return to the Create Image dialog.
9. To add another image destination (i.e., a different saved location or image file type),
click “Add”, and repeat steps 5– 10. To make changes to an image destination,
select the destination you want to change and click “Edit”. To delete an image
destination, select the destination and click “Remove”.

10. Click Start to begin the imaging process. A progress dialog appears that shows the
following ->
● The source that is being imaged.
● The location where the image is being
saved.
● The status of the imaging process.
● A graphical progress bar.
● The amount of data in MB that has been
copied and the total amount to be copied.
● Elapsed time after the imaging process
began.
● Estimated time left until the process is
complete.

11. After the images are successfully created, click Image Summary to view detailed
file information, including MD5 and SHA1 checksums.
NOTE -> This option is available
only if you created an image file
of a physical or logical drive.

12. When finished, click “Close”.
NOTE -> The image file (*.001)
as well as the image summary
file from above (*.txt) have been
saved onto the ‘Drive’. The .001
extension may be left as is, or
can be changed to .dd. The .001
extension is used due to the fact
that many times the file to be
imaged is very large and must be
split into multiple chunks. In that
case, you would have *.001, *.002, etc.
Analyze Forensic Image -
13. Click on Add Evidence Item to add evidence from disk, image file or folder.

14. Now select the source evidence type as physical drive, logical drive or image file.
We have selected the image file and clicked on “Next”.
15. Virtual Drive Image -> Open -> Select the Source Path -> Finish.

16. Now select the Evidence Tree and analyze the virtual disk as a physical disk.
17. Similarly to add raw image select again add evidence item and click on image file
and click on open option. Click on finish.
18. Now raw images will be added as a physical drive to analyze.